---
layout: post
title: Welcome to Bootcamp

---

We are wrapping up the 4th week of the bootcamp, but it feels more like the 4th month. It is incredible how much we have covered in this short time period and how much more we will be learning!

There have definitely been some frustrating and struggling times for me. As I said in my first blog post, I was really worried about my lack of technical background coming into this program. I still feel the same way and can see that a stronger foundation in python would have helped me complete tasks faster. Not to say that I haven’t been able to do anything-- it just takes me a little longer than an experienced coder. That being said, I still feel like I am learning so much with every lecture, assignment, and collaboration.

Here are some details about our second project. Note: this was an individual assignment, not a group project.

*Project Luther:

Instructions: Scrape data from BoxOfficeMojo.com (and any other relevant sites) and use linear regression to analyze your data and fit a model that would best predict a variable.

My goal: Identify features that would best help predict the portion of a movie’s total gross that comes from foreign revenue. (fun fact: on average, 46% of a movie’s total gross comes from foreign sales!). 

Data: I scraped BoxOfficeMojo.com for the top 100 movies from the years 2000 to 2016. I had a total list of 1700 movies. After removing null values, my final data set had 1300 entries. I got information on movie distributor, production budget, title, date of release, genre, MPAA rating, total gross, foreign gross, domestic gross, and runtime. 

[graph]


Details: 

After some playing around, I determined the following features were the most impactful for my dependent variable (foreign revenue percent):
*Distributor
	-Fox
	-Paramount
	-Disney (aka Buena Vista)
	-Lions Gate
	-Sony
	-Warner Bros
*Rating
	-G
	-PG
	-PG-13
	-R
*Runtime
*Genre
	-Adventure 
	-Horror
	-Animation
	-Comedy
	-Drama
	-Romance
*Season
*Release Year

I initially had included production budget but many of the movies did not have that value, so I had to eventually drop it. 

Analysis: After running linear regression with the above features, I found that a few features were more correlated than others (as expected). Interestingly none of the distributors had a high correlation with foreign gross. One possible explanation is that American movie distributors may outsource to different distributors that are located locally in foreign countries. Another interesting finding was that comedy movies had a negative correlation. This may simply be due to cultural differences and inability for foreign countries to relate to American humor. 

For next time: I would like to run the same model with a larger training set. I would also incorporate feature selection methods like Lasso to better parse out relevant variables. BoxOfficeMojo also has foreign gross data broken down by country, so it would be interesting to look at which countries contribute the most to total gross, and if there are any correlations between the country’s gross and genre or other features. This information would be great for movie producers who want to capture a larger audience outside of the United States.